Brackets is the name of a text editor that is optimized for creating HTML, CSS, and Javascript files. Brackets.io is the Web site where you can learn about the text editor and download the latest version to your computer so you can use it.

The one sentence tagline at the top of the brackets,io web page is, "A modern, open source text editor that understands web design." This is the important point of view that is important to understanding what Brackets is all about. Flipping through our textbook, I notice that the assignments are all in Notepad++, which is a fairly decent text editor for programmers on Windows. Improvements over the standard Notepad include syntax highlighting and other features. Looking at the syllabus for  this class, I see another optional editor is Dreamweaver. This in my opinion is on the other end of the spectrum--a heavyweight IDE with far too many features, it's expensive and unwieldy.

So why would I recommend you take a look at and spend the effort of learning some obscure open source text editor? I have a few reasons. First, it's good. Reading their site, you will learn that it's lightweight and makes it easy to design in and for the browser. There is a blog, lots of help, and an active community around Brackets. You can download various extentions to extend the functionality and customize it for the kind of work you do. And it works on all modern operating systems, including Windows, Linux, and OSX. So when you get that job at the cool startup in San Francisco, you'll be ready to get work on day one when they hand you your new Macbook Air. I think it's important to spend time learning things that are relevant and will help you get a job.

If you need help with Brackets, the best place to start is with the Support link at the top of the main brackets.io Web page. This will take you to the latest documenation and support procedures. With enough patience and creativity, you should be able to work through any issues you might have getting brackets downloaded, installed, and conffigured so you are ready to go with your homework in this class and building the next big web site that goes viral on the Internet.

If you are more of a visual person, scroll to the bottom of the main brackets.io page and look for the section in the footer titled, "Videos." They are well done and teach you a lot. There's a great Introduction to Brackets video. But first, the link!

http://brackets.io